no you're not testing one two three I
have no clue so first time using YouTube
directly instead of you now for this
kind of live streaming mm-hmm so I don't
know it says new live chat replay mmm so
then we can upload it to thing so this
sum in case you're tempted to edit this
takes the editors power out of your
hands you can you can't that it if we
posted to YouTube in this format but
Kylie I'm not recording it in any other
shout out to David shout out to everyone
in New Zealand who's awake at this time
this is 10:30 p.m. on the west coast so
yeah this is prime time in New Zealand
and uh all right um yeah okay so we got
a bunch of different tops to talk about
but what if is this gonna go to YouTube
as just one video thanks in that case we
should do just one topic and then I
should title it accordingly right like
we can just do the the Russian film
that's that's you're ready to do yeah
let's do that
yeah I think okay so guys we're gonna
talk about the most edgy and worthwhile
topic of 2018 communism Thea wants me
know look you know a joke but recently I
watched some videos criticizing the
Nazis criticizing you know the Nazis in
World War two and I calmed you at the
time I said you know Melissa you know
just watch these videos I posted some to
to Twitter and stuff somebody they were
they were good they were interesting
videos but you know what the truth is
even though that stuff is interesting
I've done plenty of reading about
history of fascism it's not really
relevant to present political concerns
the way the history of communism is you
know so I do get requests you know one
of my longtime fans Alec he wrote to me
complaining he said why do you always
use examples from communism and
Catholicism now this complaint and you
don't use examples so much of fascism or
the other example fascism or I forget
the fascism or imperialism I talked
about my talk about imperialism affair
Bennett yeah well you remember I had a
cartoonist making fun of me recently and
in the cartoon making fun of me he said
I equally cast aspersions on left and
right
on anyway yeah I'm not I'm not trying to
go for a perfect 50/50 ratio but yeah ha
anyway um but you know my answer that
master that partly is you know um you
know I really do think the critique of
the left is productive it's relevant to
my life it's relevant to a lot of
real-world regimes I got a deal with its
role it was relevant tomorrow I've even
a Toronto though you know you've heard
me say a lot about that and I don't know
I know I've seen some some signs of that
now I'm ok let's let's just says that
before we get in the communism proper
cuz look you've just contrasted what
life is like in Michigan to Seattle to
Vancouver and Victoria I mean I know
yeah but I mean you know I don't know do
you feel Canada is way more left-wing
than the United States you think the
sense of what's normal the political
spectrum here is further the left from
what do you told me about it that's the
impression I get but you know I haven't
lived here that long well we're not
debating abortion here I'm just as an
example right yeah but isn't Trump now
talking about making abortion illegal in
the States so that debate isn't over and
the stakes here it's it's over you know
you know things like do you teach sex
sexual education in schools
that stuff's over here we had gay
marriage before the states too I mean I
can't say it's dramatically further to
the left but I mean my experience of
downtown Toronto was really left-wing
yeah and you know that's also things so
I've seen a study of this in the UK in
England um but you know there's also a
sense in which people become
self-selecting and those political
patterns become self reinforcing so like
within England only a certain type of
personality wants to live in downtown
London it's noisy it's crowded its
competitive and people who don't like
that even if they're from downtown
London Oh completely appropriate shirt
for the video too
um even if you're from downtown London
originally um be careful not just them I
am you will do you want before to move
for your own good
okay uh but you know even if you're from
Denton on an original you'll move
elsewhere so I think there's some of
that going on too
even just the suburbs of Toronto would
have been more conservative than
Toronto but yeah in case you guys don't
know I've talked about this in the past
we talked about in some depth now I grew
up with communist parents and I normally
have to reiterate those people it's the
worst with academics a lot of people
hear that and think oh you mean you had
liberal left-wing hippie parents who
were into Buddhism and yoga and
sympathized with Nicaraguan rebels or
something no my parents were real
communists and that included you know
hating Buddhism and justifying you know
the massacres of Buddhists by Mao Zedong
supporting you know crackdown on on
Buddhist and Tibet by the Chinese you
know they they were real hardcore
communists who really believed really
justified mass murder really justified
the atrocities at home what do you say
that they support that they supported it
yes what exactly do you mean like they
weren't actually like they would tell
you that they were in favor of these
right what you just mentioned yeah and
more yeah sure I mean it's not it's not
that passive mean you know Canada had
communist parties political
organizations they'd be members of and
they donate money too and they'd
subscribe to their newspapers and they
would you know so I mean when they were
younger they were actively involved in
in activism which included you know
protests and political events and
publications publishing books and giving
lectures and organizing things and
trying to infiltrate in the Communist
Royce Anna's trying to infiltrate label
labor unions you know when I was growing
up they you know that all their time was
devoted to their business they're
completely capitalist but it's important
yeah but so the that activist side of it
had had passed out of their lives there
was also the fact that they were
basically in a situation where they were
backstabbed by other communists and of
course other communist perceived them as
backstabbing other people and you know
as they tell the story they were afraid
for their lives they thought they'd
actually be murdered by other members of
the communist movement they've been a
part of now you know my father had great
difficulty telling the truth about
anything so you know I have more than
one kind of perspective on that that
story is hard for me to tell because I
have to throughout it put in asterisks
and say well this is the way he tells it
here's what I know from other sources
you know etc however you know
Mena's have a tremendous history of
massacring other communists and you know
even in Afghanistan even in places you
don't associate with communism I put up
my hand in class so you know just to
mention Afghanistan is still to this day
not that densely populated a country I
put up my hand in class in my class on
communism history of communism that at
UVic and I said you know professor a
really short question because he really
didn't have time for her you know wasn't
asking long serious questions I said you
know I've seen textbooks and so on move
you're sure for babe you know I'm sorry
okay so you comfortable right no it's
fine
okay you want pillow no no edits keep
rolling anyway you know uh you know Anna
Stenson you know the textbook sources
and so on they say like an over 1
million body count liked or even a
million people being killed in communist
sectarian violence so one group of
communists fight against another in
getting over him I say you know where
these are these body counts legitimate
and the professor said yes to my
knowledge you know these illegitimate so
you give these unbelievable white know
Cambodia is another one where just
because it's such a small country a lot
of people who are not like Holocaust
deniers they wonder how credible the the
numbers are and I've been through the
math there's a famous essay that's
titled accounting hell that's the title
counting hell about the different
efforts to put a body count on a precise
bodycon how many people the crime is
killed but a lot of the violence
including under Lenin when you know
communism start in Russia and that he
said the 1917 to 1921 kind of period a
lot of their massacres right off the bat
you know we're calm unist on communist
not the enemies of communism but you
know what they perceive that so I just
say in that sense that's that's part of
the background of that situation but
whether or not my parents were really
rolling with a bunch of killers you know
but they took communism seriously and
they felt the other people in the
movement took it seriously enough to
have them killed when they started to
fall out of favor with with the
leadership and they fled they were there
is my father tells the story they fled
for the lives but there were a lot of
reasons well anyway from from other for
what comments oh so they think we're
living in southern Ontario generally my
impression is they moved
again this is what communists are into
you know organizing labor unions well I
was well nobody really ended when my
memory starts so I was born in Ottawa
but they didn't live in Ottawa for long
my impression is you know my father
originally is from a steel steel mill
town I mean that sense he's an authentic
working-class you know communists his
mother worked in a steel factory his mom
was a single mom working in the steel
factory so you know unlike unlike the
kind of stereotypical bourgeois
champagne socialists my father did come
from a working-class background in a
steel town so I think a lot of his
organizing was there but you know it's
like a one hour drive between Hamilton
in Toronto so I think they were in the
Greater Toronto southern Ontario area
but leave ask me where were they living
you know to what extent it was Toronto
versus Hamilton versus died you know
it's versus Guelph I think they didn't
move around on that on that scale during
the the period of their most intense
communist activity and so just briefly
sorry that this is the thing about a
spontaneous conversation we're not
talking like analytically about just one
topic but you know one one interesting
element of that is that their particular
rose to fame because they published a
poet they published a book of poetry
with kind of socialist and calm
communist overtones and then my father's
book was supposed to be kind of the
follow-up hit a hit book I mean work in
this context plus brother one reading it
but yeah so he wrote a book which was
it's titled the art the history of art
and painting in Canada and is 100%
communists you know propaganda it's
unbelievable you want to how good this
becomes but yeah look look at this book
literally like one if you leave through
it one of the diagrams like one of the
illustrations is of a working-class man
with a hard hat a construction hat
knocking over the capitalist system
there's like a diagram it shows like the
workers the capitalist system and like
this like you know cracks in the system
it's like oh so this is how it works so
this explains
yeah yeah yeah like it's that like where
I say it's propaganda like it's it's
pretty transparent anyway no so I read
that book I'm guessing in my first year
of university you know and you know one
of the parts one of the only parts I
could relate to positively I talked to
my father said well you have all this
stuff go First Nations the stuff that
like seems to really care about you know
Candice is just people and so on and I
remember his response to that was just
yeah well like you know for the movement
they required that kind of thing but he
just regarded that as propaganda this
stuff about like the importance of First
Nations and their their culture and
their future and so on he regarded that
as insincere you know the regard
positively yeah so equally for communism
because you know I compare it to like my
experience with religion when I was
growing up my mom was more of a
religious person and our family we
wouldn't have gone to church if my mom
my dad often complained that we would
have to go to church every Sunday so it
was it was obvious you know who was who
was actually who was actually making us
become Chris right
right was it was it anything like that
were both of your parents so so they
both I mean before I was born I think
it's fair to say they were both a
hundred percent committed and sincere or
communists before I was born my father
was more of a Stalinist
so that was what inspired us to make
this video by the way it was the death
of someone this movie that came out once
all together so it's the occasion for
this video although generally of course
this is an issue that comes up again
again and my mother was more of a Maoist
was more towards the the Chinese side of
communism the other element here really
is Cuba and even Yugoslavia because at
that time those were also contrasting
forms of communism and I've seen the
evidence that my father was was Pro
Cuban probably when he first was getting
into communism that was the image of
communism that you're a man but when he
was quite young and even Yugoslavia was
this was a kind of alternative to you
know Stalinist communism you know it's
the calm communism of outright mass
murder for Incred
bleep reasons by the way sorry I just
measure so we saw this movie they said
well get back to my situation but like
you know Stalin did things like he
massacred everyone who could speak
Esperanto
they just everyone could get this barato
Stalin literally killed more German
communists than Hitler did you know
Hitler carried out massacres of German
Communist which is not surprising but a
huge number of German communists fled to
Russia because they knew you know they
were anti-nazi and they knew what the
non-supported was about so they were
people who are pro communists and
sincerely went from Germany to Russia
then after they got there and settle
down Stalin carry two approaches
massacring those people so again you
know to really continue supporting
Joseph Stalin over those decades the
decades of my father's life it's pretty
mind-blowing to not crack and was your
fate so I'm coming back to the question
I'm coming back to the combative
question you know so the question is to
what extent were my parents equally
communist or one one more than the other
so I think I think before was born
probably my mother and father equally
were more totally a hundred percent
pro-communist but the question is then
how do you deal with the way your life
fragments and the way the world
fragments as you as you get older
because communism is is a childlike
religion it's childlike in its
simplicity note here by the way if
English is your second language
childlike is not the same as childish I
don't mean shall - I mean childlike you
know I'm just sorry it's a digression
but it's it's a good one out here like
for my father growing up in a steel town
poor and hating rich people there is a
childlike simplicity to a political
philosophy that just promises you you
can kill the wretch you can stop killing
the factory owner it's it's not a lot of
analytical defecation but then as you
get older so maybe when you're 15 or
something that makes sense to you not 15
I was already pretty cynical but you
know like maybe at eight maybe eight
years old I mean it's its childlike yeah
yeah you mentioned
you had a friend who ended up going to a
private school once you got to school
yes that's right
it led to a falling-out between you two
yeah I just I completely something
that's right right because you went to a
private school yes because you were yes
you know each other
it was actually no he was in the same
home he was a he was a class enemy
that's right when the next that's right
that's right it's a hundred percent
that's right he will you know if you
believe in communists on your family
religion that you believe there's a war
coming there's a civil war coming like
they had in Russia in 1917 where the
rich fight against the poor or like that
in China and the various purges after
1949 that your class enemies will be
your literal blood enemies that you'll
kill each other you know that's that's
the Utopia promised by by communism so
yeah somebody who identifies as you know
somebody wears the uniform of the other
ruling class of the aristocracy or
whatever who that's you know yes yes you
so you get to be a friend with some of
that I've toyed this is best sorry
digression I think this is already
mentioned on YouTube it's but it's
direct answer this question we should
come back to your earlier question but
um there was one kid in my school and
his parents were Nazis now I'm not using
Nancy in like a figurative sense here
I'm really do mean like they were
Germans they own Doberman Pinschers his
father actually lost his job because of
his commitment to Nazism his father was
fired from his job I don't want to give
too many details because people could
actually figure this wasn't wrong but
you know the social he was you know he
was fired because of his racism the
father and the father became a taxi
driver apparently a good living his
texture they seemed to be doing all
right and you know all the sons they all
had these nasty names I'm not gonna give
the names but like if you know some
things about German and fascism like
they're given their kids like weird
names so they were really hardcore Nazis
no no you know you know the current the
current term is dog whistling you know
there was a sense of that being a little
bit code it'll open indirect but anyway
um you know but when I looked at that
family you know I could see that there's
a parallelism between these the kids
growing up with with fascism and then
racism it was really racism was the main
thing and then my growing up in a
communist household just in that they
were growing up being taught you know
just like Christians with the end of the
world is coming they were growing up
being taught you know like in the future
like look if you make friends with these
kids who are of other races guess you
know guess what's coming in the future
in the same way I was being taught you
know you know if you you know if you
make friends with kids of other social
classes you know the the war the class
struggle is coming you know and and some
people don't understand what class
struggle means and some people do I mean
but class you know that's what happened
after 1917 and so on yeah so yeah that
was an interesting parallel that that
clicked for me was well here are these
kids being raised being taught you know
black people and Hispanics and someone
were implicitly then amines and likewise
there was a class you know and in my
business class classroom I'm yeah it was
the original course we branched off from
him I'm totally sure take notes or they
wanna do sorry humor right now so you
want to but look the question you asked
before was were they both equally
compassionate vote communism so you know
when I was growing up they were
struggling with the kind of you know
round peg in a square hole reality of
how how different their real lives were
from the ideology they preached and they
cope with that in different ways my
father so I talked to my father a few
times before he died we didn't talk at
all for period of 10 years but then when
I did try to talk to him again I
remember he at first he was trying to
just deny that we were raised communists
at all yet these various excuses
I don't know you weren't you weren't
raised communist to them and I remember
saying to him you know um how often do
you think around the dinner table
you know what Jewish family talks about
Judaism and Jewish philosophy like
you're if you're raising your
Jewish and you know he was quite stunned
at this question and I said you know I
said to him very like do you not realize
like every night for like two hours we
talked about like communist politics
felt like most like there are some Jews
like if your father is a scholar of
Judaism who's really passionate maybe
you grow up with this level of
discussion but yeah yeah yeah yeah but
I'm just saying it was really you know
and you know it was dinner table
conversation you know in death sorry
there's one more big pointer coming up
but you know I said to my father you
know for a child growing up like you
can't like even if a Jewish family never
took their kids to Temple like you know
if you never took them to a ritual if
you grew up having this kind of in-depth
discussion about you know politics and
philosophy and so on of Judaism every
night then your kids are raised Jewish
they're raised with a huge education in
Judaism and like I grew up with these
kinds of conversations well when my
father was in town all the time he
traveled a lot for business
I grew up literally with communist books
on the shelf in my bedroom and in the
the family living room you know which I
did read I could talk about what those
books were I know because I remember all
this I have a painfully accurate memory
for these details but here's the big
difference but if you were raised Jewish
what you see in the outside world is
what you see in the newspapers and it's
what you see like maybe Jerry Seinfeld
so Jerry Seinfeld's a comedian who
happens to be Jewish you know so you
maybe you see Judaism inside the family
and then you see in the outside world in
this different way what made my parents
religions so powerful as a child for me
was that you'd see their religion inside
the household and then in the newspapers
on the TV news you saw a lot of the same
things being confirmed right so there'd
be just enough truth in what I was being
told that when you are child and you see
like Oh Ronald Reagan is talking about
nuclear bombs people are talking about
war with Russia it affirmed for you what
you were being told right it there were
there was enough factual content
corresponding to problems in the real
world that everyone was talking about
that the newspapers and
you know that you know the media of the
day we're talking about that it it made
it all seem very real and you don't have
that with by and large with Christianity
and Judaism I don't know like you know I
guess once in a while there's a news
item saying Oh
archeologists are trying to find pieces
of Noah's Ark you know like maybe
there's some like that in the news
but in that sense where it was being
affirmed as real yeah yeah so I was just
going through my notes on Euthyphro
thinking about know it would approach
this topic of what is piety and it got
me thinking about how I was raised with
my moral code like and how that was
influenced by religion and I wonder how
the religion that you were raised with
how communism led to a certain moral
code when were you able to think about
that in your own words and make your own
moral code right maybe think yes some
things that you learned we're not you
know good not correct like that you're
sure the private school made him an
enemy of the working class right yeah
yeah you know the the aesthetics and
ethic of communism did influence me as a
kid and that can be boiled down to
helping the poor you know wanting to
help the poor right you've said you've
expressly you raise interest in poverty
in general right they're only three
points in this list so one is one health
before - I would say is simple living
voluntary poverty you know which we
still do now in this apartment yeah I'm
sorry he's still you know and and and
three I would say would be an overall
kind of air SATs militarism mmm you know
like I've misha's you many times growing
up being ready for World War II World
War three wanting to be ready for world
with not nothing actually yeah but you
know that that that that sense of it and
you know the the push-ups and the serve
you right right right but this so this
this was gonna say but even those three
points so these are very vague elements
obviously this isn't anything as
specific as like Marxist dialectical
materialism or specific principles from
Lenin and Stalin and what have you you
know growing up what you see is your
parents utterly failing to practice what
they preach right what you see is your
parents utterly failing to live up to
you know the the the again the aesthetic
and the ethics of their of their own
moral system yeah right
Luke so are you in viewing as I asked my
parents I remember being a small child
so you again most American remember kind
of how tall I was in which house we were
in but don't remember the year but I
remember being a small child so I don't
know if I was eight years old or what
and I remember asking my parents ago
about getting done training about
getting military training and and what
and they laughed at me and I was like
look I'm serious but we're talking about
World War three we're talking about the
Revolution and so on I said how do you
think che guevara you know prepare I
remember I had examples how do you think
Ho Chi men prepare for so these Ho Chi
Minh's leader of revolution in in
Vietnam Che Guevara's leader of
revolution and acute those like you know
how did these people do it how do you
expect me to do it if you don't provide
me with this kind of training and you
know they like I can't even remember
what their I can remember what the
response was to you know but the point
is you're growing up asking those
questions I'm looking around for that
and then you know the reality of who my
parents were was that they were kind of
utterly corrupt and decadent bourgeois
people yeah yeah but even even so even
within that did my parents keep even
given that you could own a capitalist
business and still be as sincere
communist Mostar did they ever give a
about feeding the homeless
did they ever give a about going
out and helping poor migrant farm
workers you could you know Tehran you
could go out and get involved with oh
yeah the Nicaraguan illegal immigrants
here working on the farms when I was kid
that was case in southern Ontario a lot
of Nicaraguans and people from that Park
Latin America coming and picking apples
and strawberries and the we farm in
southern Ontario you know um you know
there there was no sincerity there was
no purse
engagement of that of that kind you know
said the course there were sincerity in
other ways I'm just saying they weren't
living up to the aesthetic worthy or the
ethics yeah those those ethics are a lot
in my opinion more difficult to live up
to than the basics of you know most of
the Commandments in the Bible you know
don't reveal don't kill these were
fairly easy and were demonstrated by my
parents but what got me knows I'm
actually going out and helping the poor
as you right you're right right well
look there's more obviously
hey this isn't like advice for communist
there's more than one way to be a
communist you know I think there is
there is more than one way to try to
live up to that ethic and that aesthetic
but for me as a kid it was just figuring
out my parents had no interest in trying
you know what they were interested in
doing was going to the Opera in Paris
sir opera is not that great example yeah
right but my father's passion was they
weren't living in countries that is true
yeah you really believe I don't even
know if they were visiting I mean during
communism you know I don't think they
ever visited Russia or Cuba oh yeah you
know my father's tells the story that he
applied to migrate to Cuba at a certain
point his life right but a lot of things
about that story seem like a story he
made up it's just you know now looking
back at it as an adult it's like you
know yeah I I maybe you know maybe
there's 20% of truth to it or something
but the stories he told though just
because it is a short story he claimed
that basically the Cuban embassy told
him if you become a dentist well am i
but you know get a profession get a
respectable job like they get that
tested that will let you to keep it's
not it's not that hard to believe but
yeah yeah yeah yeah so at one point he
was he wasn't nervous than that but yeah
so you know I just want to emphasize
those evening you asked in what ways did
the the teachings kind of shaped me
growing up you know it's shaped those
questions about you know the difference
between the rich and the poor why are
some people
some wire some people for as I say it
sheep the question I was really haunted
by the genocide of our native people
there was just a couple of buildings in
all Toronto that had a sign up in an
indigenous language and things you know
it shapes you know those those kinds of
questions but then what you realize is
one my parents don't have the answers
and to the answers my parents do have
are totally wrong totally immoral and
totally preoccupied with justifications
for for mass murder that's unbelievably
terrible history of communism and it's
not like the future or communism is
better it's not it's really not like
these people saying oh no no next time
it'll be better really what they're
promising is next time it'll it'll be
the same you know next time will be you
know the cycle of history you know it'll
is you know I just say it's not like
they're saying next it's not like
they're saying they're reeling violence
from now on which you know some groups
do that they have a period of being
violently change you know there isn't
any change of that no they they believe
in class struggle they believe in you
know very literally decapitating they
were stress there it's really heavy
stuff for a kid when did you learn about
I you know I remember so again so we
just saw the movie stolen so the death
of stolen you know I remember my sister
or saying to me that she'd always
remember the day that that our Father
said that he considered Stalin the the
greatest man in history you know and
this value dinner and it's a funny thing
because I can't remember my father ever
saying anything that unsophisticated to
me you know I mean different people even
then are aware of it they kind of put
their guard up and I was I was a shrewd
kid and you know all kids can be cruel
all kids can be mocking all right you
know I mean you know even even my
daughter already at age five or so well
she kind of says things that are you
know and it did I mean even when I was a
kid it did hurt my parents feelings when
I said things that you know called their
beliefs and a question in our or made
them feel foolish made them feel like I
can rectify you know was asking
questions that couldn't answer stuff
which is pretty easy to do and Tom as I
pointed out contradictions and what they
what they believe in this sort of thing
so I can't remember my father ever
saying something that blunt
and not sophisticated to me you know
instead when he talked to me about
Stalin there had to be a lot of you know
baffle gab of saying well whereas you
know mistakes were made and there were
massacres and so on nevertheless you
know what I mean it was more it was
really much more that that kind of thing
yeah so you would have been right yeah
right I'm born and I'm born in 1978 so
11 I thank you yes approached communist
it affected me I mean I think my parents
you know were shell-shocked I mean for
it's kind of a overused metaphor but I
remember my reaction to it I remember me
even talking to children in the
schoolyard about it I remember my asking
my parents questions about it and I
remember them you were just not being
able to cope with it at all you know I
mean the the Berlin Wall was one of the
pillars of the earth you know for them
it defined you don't define everything
and you know I mean I'd say the term
cognitive dissonance is overused but I
mean they lived with the awareness that
live with the knowledge that if they
themselves had lived in Russia under
Stalin they would have been killed
it would have been liquidated my father
said it to me several times not many
times I can work specifically so they
knew if they had lived in in Russia you
know basically during any of the periods
of history when communism was taken
seriously they would have been murdered
one way or another by the communist
regime they knew they were in effect to
free thinking and to Liberty I mean
let's you know it's people on you know
who to to live in that regime they were
morally approving of a regime that they
knew would have killed them and did kill
a lot of people like them right so but
on the other hand they were trying to
justify the way at that time there was a
lot of attention on how Russia was
treating the Czech Republic how they
were treating you know was the serval
East Germany you know then the part of
Berlin they had occupied and so on
you know the treatment
of those people's there were a little
bit more exposed to the kind of the
Western their press and there was a
little bit more attention on them and
yeah so they're trying to justify a form
of oppression that they were aware they
themselves wouldn't be able to endure
you know and then with the fall of the
Berlin Wall all that excuse making all
that rationalization suddenly doesn't
make sense anymore you know what was the
point what was it all about man you know
but they never in front of me you know
showed whatever process that went
through but I you know many years later
probably about ten years later I can
remember my father reading a poem in one
of the Communist newspapers communist
publications he was getting and it was a
poem about the poem was basically saying
oh don't worry we can go back in time
you know the fall of the Berlin Wall was
all a mistake and you know like we can
go back to the old days of Joseph Stalin
this this kind of thing this is the
center of the poem and you remember my
father having a really emotional
reaction in that poem but I don't know
if they have a process that I remember
whatever that was on the news because I
was on the news a lot at that time when
I was a kid it wasn't news a lot for
like a whole year they were all it
wasn't like one day story there were all
these consequences of the story
including these just mentioned they were
like news stories about like the actual
physical pieces of the Berlin Wall where
they were gonna be like stored and
like oh this one's being put into a
museum but this one's you know so they
say it's stayed in the news and I
remember them always being very blank
and very sort of just an XI ated you
know in in dealing with this but at the
same time I remember we met we met in
new I'd love to know what happened that
guy we met in new a family and they were
they were refugees from the Czech
Republic and you know again they were
probably probably my father thought of
himself as that sort of person also
could be persecuted by the communism and
you know I expected my father to be
harsh and condemning towards them
because they were anti-communist and my
father wasn't he was very sympathetic
you know he really you know I remember
his reaction to meeting them and
chatting with them you know so there's a
you know there's a kind of there's an
unbridgeable gold
there you know and that anyway maybe
that's one of the defining marks of of
real communism if you take communism
seriously you have to believe in
massacring innocent people and you know
and and you know but my father Elise is
very much cognizant these people were
innocent you know it's not that they
deserve to be massacred or something
yeah yeah so peculiar peculiar ideology
yeah in a real contact rustic
Christianity or what-have-you
I mean yeah despite all of its flaws
being raised you know you mentioned that
you had these discussions at the dinner
table being raised with a political
religion yes you can see the many
benefits from because you care about
politics and you are very well-versed
and from a young age political right I
read anything real political until just
recently
and that wasn't order emphasized when I
was growing up the importance of
actually so just sir just to acknowledge
that we're getting the the questions the
audience so ghosts of Karl Marx glad you
stuck with us goes to crow Marx goes to
Karl Marx asks what did your father
think of anarchism so you know his type
of response to that what would be
typical this would be the first thing
he'd say but something to be longing to
say he would say well you know I think
it's mistaken this emphasis on the
individual yeah so he was you'll hear
critics of communism saying that more
often the Communists he was a real
communist and that he believed in
collectivization
and losing your individual identity of
the individual not being real you know
it's normally it's only critics of
communism said it's not people who
support the notion but he believed that
and so for him that was enough to that
was enough to kind of debunk debunk
anarchism like well people don't exist
like the only abstractions like we only
group identity exist so that's that's a
remarkable thing now I could mention
other other other comments he made about
it you know mostly based on the one big
real historical example of anarchism is
Spain is Spanish anarchism in the
Spanish Civil War
which of course was negative from a
communist perspective yeah hmm yeah we
just mentioned that you you had heard
you're dead reading a poem right yeah
well you've mentioned out other times
that you're never read articles from the
newspaper and write emphatically yep
really oh yeah you know how having a
presence like that and in the household
when I was growing up would have
influenced me and changed me for I don't
really know but you know coming from
somebody whose father didn't read like
he you know just watch TV all the time
like actually having that business on
reading and paying attention to world
news and paying attention to what
political ideology I think you know even
though right I definitely wouldn't right
so look I I agree a couple of which much
the first point is is really to response
to this one um so my father had nine
kids yeah I only had this effect on me
right so I responded it this way or I
just as you described care about
political ideology care about paying
attention to politics I'm making these
connections I'm worried about you know
World War three coming all this stuff I
of the other eight kids I don't think
even one responded to the stimulus in
this way right and now so my own sister
so I have two sisters out of the better
than nine but you know um so it's a
pretty high failure rate I think you're
right that it did succeed in my case you
know she doesn't she's never given a
about politics she doesn't give a
about the poor she doesn't get I
mean you know she isn't a bad he doesn't
have a humanitarian bone in her body
no I'm sorry but I mean you know saying
she has a pH sort you have a PhD in
chemistry it means no I'm sorry is no no
connection must sir but I mean PhD is
just your level of education let me know
it's it's no we're talking about when
I'm talking about getting a PhD Darian
mode you know taking some kind of
political impetus from this sort of a
sense of direction
ya know anyway so just say in the immuno
some of my other brothers have
respectable careers one of them is an
archaeologist but again not a political
bone
his body and so on but yeah you know you
make an interesting broad point in
saying that growing up with communism as
a religion you are growing up with this
worldly you know religion you're growing
up with a religion that's based on real
events
you know historical and present what
sits above all else it's a fetish about
history if anything but like you know
the French Revolution I mean everyday
history of every revolution but the
French Revolution the Russian Revolution
that cares about about history and what
happened yeah that's right yes that's
right and it's based on actual history
not made-up stories like Noah's Ark
right but with with the caveat that
they're telling a lot of lies that the
Hicks history itself is quite
fictionalized yeah so you know just to
mention briefly I think I've told you
this but it's verbally at one point but
you know one of the books that was on my
childhood bookshelf was a cartoon
history of the Russian Revolution
probably someone else remembers this
plug they must have it was a pretty it
was obvious that a lot of them published
it was published by some some Communist
Party Congress party the USA or
something I forget but it was a history
of the revolution with you know
illustrations and you know it seemed
down-to-earth and it seemed honest and
it you know you know I remember the
opening pages it said look different
people tell a lot of different lies
about what happened during the Russian
Revolution yeah good showing up okay you
know it said you know uh you know there
are a lot of Lies told some people say
there's something so that's what really
seemed like it was presenting with a
balanced truth there was as many years
later than I realized
like almost everything in this book was
a lie you know like everything that was
telling you about about the Russian
Revolution yeah but no you're right I
mean it is it is connected to to real
history and you know you know real human
suffering and tragedy I mean you know as
a child anyway you know it pulls you
into reality that way if you're if
you're susceptible to be let me plug
into it sure right yeah
so we saw death of snow remember what I
had to say about entertaining and I
thought it was actually you know I did
laugh out loud funny you said that you
didn't actually laughs yeah right yeah I
found the human to my liking at some
points it was just you've said that some
points some parts of it will not totally
yeah to be expected from us right budget
big-budget film like this but it's a
dramatization yeah yeah but not so much
as while we were watching it the
previews were one of the previews was
for a movie coming up about Karl Marx
that looks like propaganda Wow Marxist
propaganda animation it wasn't
glorifying something it wasn't no
horrifying any outfit posse so yeah that
was those was interesting for me because
you know I don't I'm not familiar with
this history and I didn't know about the
death of Stalin until yeah for me I felt
the greatest strength of the movie was
just portraying all the historical
characters as real human beings mm-hmm
you know they did that for the purposes
of comedy but from my perspective the
main effect was of the comedy was just
humanizing the people involved that they
were very human they had very relaxed
human conversations to me it really
wasn't funny
it wasn't laugh out loud funny but you
know it was nice to see those people
portrayed as you know human human all do
you think I think that might have to do
with the fact that you've done so much
research and you know so much about
history and I remember whispering like
yeah I never thought I would see these
warriors being portrayed on right in a
movie right so are you I think you are
more inclined to take it seriously
right I mean for me it was really just
like a real serious historical drama but
with you know with this much more human
element where people
act like statues you know they they
behave in a more yeah you know their
manner of speaking is more and more
human and relaxed and so on yeah but
it's so like I don't know it's just so
foreign and the the one of the funny
parts to me it was once Stalin died the
comitia trying to figure out what their
policy should be I'm feeling like
they're somehow being umpires that they
are going against their leader when they
wanna change want to do something
different want to stop the mass
murderers once you stop the mass arrests
um and you know kind of going back and
forth about like whether this is this is
good for for the country you're good
yeah I mean you know look obviously you
know that but the the film gives you a
sense in broad outline of what it was
like living under that regime and you
know the quite the reason that for
making this video is what is it like
growing up with people who glorify and
with that regime yeah I mean you know
there are all these questions
surrounding you know starting Stalinism
and so on I mean oh and the other side
of it that's sick is you know for so
many years the Cold War provided this
this huge distraction where was like
anything bad the United States did
they'd say well it's not as bad as as
what the Russians are doing and even
though that's true I mean it's what is
this a race to the bottom from the
lowest dad it's like this I mean it's
true like for example you know during
the same period of history you can say
well the Americans are treating
african-americans very badly it's true
status of black people nervous was
really really terrible but people really
did say back oh well they're treated
better than the ethnic minorities in
Russia and frankly it's a little bit
higher you know yeah because it was
absolutely you know nightmarish yeah
it's bizarre I mean something else that
came out of the movie and a few memories
to me saying this when we left I point
out you me there's this huge literature
produced by by Russian communism and
then the minute the life and death
threat disappeared the minute they
stopped holding a gun to people's heads
nobody read any of those books they all
you know everyone
suddenly recognized they had no literary
value that weren't entertaining that
weren't interesting right and this
includes the final work of Joseph Stalin
his posthumous work though the book he
was writing right up to his death it was
only 98% completed his death and then it
was published after there's nobody read
it you know if it had been published
during his life everybody what I read it
you know you kind of wouldn't have a
choice it would be in the curriculum and
so on but it was his his supposed you
know masterpiece and yeah I mean we also
just talked about you look at me it
seems to us like freedom of speech is
such a weak to all these days you know
how does freedom of speech really shape
the world and change the world but that
was a regime that couldn't cope with
allowing freedom of speech we talk about
a lot of after film I was pointing out
to you like in this period after the
death of Stalin
they sort of experimented what they
tried to have a little bit of freedom of
speech but as soon as you had a little
bit of freedom of speech you started
getting allegations coming in against
government officials and bureaucrats
right that they murdered people they
rape people they tortured people just
there is yeah right and you know Sun is
just reports of criminal activity you
know within the government just you know
as soon as you had any freedom of speech
or even the reports about starvation and
stuff reports about shortages as soon as
you have the newspaper that can that can
publish in a letter or something
complaining put this stuff this you know
shakes the shakes the regime to its core
so yeah that's that's that's a real
difference but anyway sorry I mean we're
not even comparing something else but
that was that was one of the themes that
came out of that and I guess you know
the the ego trap that people in my
parent like my parents were were stuck
in was exactly that they did have the
freedom of speech they did have the
access to information they knew all the
things and had the freedom to talk about
all the things that people inside Russia
couldn't talk about and couldn't read
about or not not easily not openly and
so the only people who remain the
Communists in a country like Canada were
really crazy and really committed and
really engaged in a kind of a very pious
form of self-deception you know I mean
how you know how do you believe in
Stalin after Stalin has been totally
discredited within Russia
ya know that's really the question is
that's exactly what happened after the
film doesn't go into that that period
but but by the 1980s I mean the nineties
it totally discredited I mean you know
it takes some time you know how how do
you continue believing in Mao Zedong so
the leader of Chinese communism after
he's been totally discredited within
China
you know when the official Communist
Party history even regrets that stuff
well it was obvious that at least in the
portrayal in the movie that they wanted
to make changes immediately after story
that died thought that arresting so many
people just like couple days prior was
an error and so and they all had friends
and in the film just a lose that but
they all had friends and girlfriends and
lovers who had disappeared into the
garage establishment they don't explain
you but Stalin's daughter is weeping
because of a boyfriend
we presume who's disappeared into the
into the gulag yeah it may or may not be
exactly the historical reality they're
falling here because she did have one
lover this there is a real historical
story but regardless it turns out that
the film depicts it you see everyone has
been touched by this this kind of
repression yeah so everyone knows the
Armagh can do yeah one thing that we
were talking about was that this was
really this was really an aristocratic
group yes relates to what you were just
saying because one of the I forget his
name but you know when he was talking to
Sullins daughter he said I'll make an
exception
you know like okay oh I'll do what I can
to find your boyfriend Alexei or
whatever and you know it turns out he's
been killed in the gulag you can't bring
him back from the dead so but you know
he's pulling out the stops for this they
really have this aristocrat you know
when it's the beginning it takes poison
this big mansion or cabin of Stalin's
and their third servants and all the
cylinders inside the halls of power and
the government or in these you know
aristocratic palaces with marble columns
and you know sumptuous you know we
Russian Imperial decorations right
I'm one of the one of the scenes was
really notable was just this huge gate
yes right and you know to me all that's
all that sickening to I mean you know
the the look I mean both the poison and
the medicine of communism is the promise
of equality so I mean you just read
about Sparta in many ways the written
description of Sparta not the historical
reality but the the somewhat glamorized
written description of what ancient
Sparta was like was this huge
inspiration to communists and other
political extremists probably also
fascism and again with Sparta kind of
the the bait on the hook you know is is
equality but in Sparta's case it's at
least an attempt at literally quality
there's no money allegedly yeah footnote
in reality Sparta had money you know
everyone wears the same clothing
everyone eats the same yes right
everyone's cut yeah everyone does the
same military service everyone wears the
same shirt yeah there's one tunic
everybody wears the same shirt no no
buddy that's another one wasn't in your
in your video nobody in Sparta was
allowed to carry a lamp or a lantern
yeah cuz if one person is alone
everybody's gonna want on it no no
lanterns for anyone in the dark walk in
the dark it'll toughen you up it'll make
you better better at walking in the dark
barefoot everyone's got to be playful
yeah that's right so yeah
you know but I mean the meaning of
equality in Sparta is very clear and
then you look at these you know
communists despotisms and it's just a
new aristocracy in every meaningful
sense you've just created new
aristocrats including the hereditary
element that it does go from father to
son I mean the the first generation of
aristocrats is true and most aristocrat
assistance is created by a war or a
civil war the very first aristocrats are
soldiers of some kinds or war heroes or
something but then it immediately the
next generation are there in power
because they're the children of the war
here so it really becomes becomes
nothing but an airstone
and but even as the traffic's even as
the aesthetics they're not making any
effort to wear the same shirt as
everyone else or live in the same house
that when I'll sort of starve what
everyone else is starving they're living
in this this kind of to me unforgivable
you know splendor in the midst of you
know the very poverty and starvation
there they're dictatorship is
creating right yeah and just the the
sheer power that was given to Stalin is
you know that and one example from the
movie is they were trying to replicate a
portrait of Stalin was a young girl and
they were like okay we need to we need
to do everything to find the same girl
so she can be in the photo with the new
head of the state and yeah so anyway
yeah just knowing and seeing the
extravagance of the funeral it was you
haven't first on - yep and you know I
mean the joy everyone's calling each
other comrade
I mean comrade means we're equals right
yeah a very clear hierarchy to who some
people are more comrade than others you
know yeah yeah yeah yeah it was
interesting to see the power struggle
yeah coming to power not sure any well
you know for me I could talk about this
all day part of the kind of heartbreak
of this history um so that the winner as
presented this movie is Nikita
Khrushchev and then it ends by saying
well Nikita Khrushchev was in power
until one day there was a coup d'etat
against him which is true and you know
I've said before in other videos Nikita
Chris trip was a relatively hopeful
figure he's not remembered as one of the
great monsters of history the way Stalin
was the way the way uh Lenin is but um
I'm sorry I've lost my train of thought
for once I've managed to lose my train
of thought you know sorry this was gonna
say for me you know there's this issue
of Nikita Khrushchev promising reform
and promising to be moderate
when you're in a system with this who is
moderate you guys go into the history of
this one of the reasons why Stalin rose
to power in the first place was that he
was perceived as moderate he was the
moderate anti-war candidate compared to
the other guys he was competing with for
the leadership of the time well he gets
into power and he's not so moderate now
I mean even Chris chef who I say is not
remembered as that that terrible leader
so when Khrushchev was coming to power
wire people supporting him because he's
a moderate he's against the massacres
he's against the gulag he's against this
repression of free speech he's promising
liberalisation and reform zone once he
gets in the power you know how different
is it really from Stalin's grid now it
was there was an improvement I mean as I
say it's not it's not it what has
terrible as but you know they still had
the same but still was fundamentally the
same horrible communist system and so it
still was you know we was styling light
was what it was you know in this town
that's the reality right so I mean they
didn't make you know exactly do I mean
they still didn't have newspapers or
elections or you know idea the things
you might have and this starvation
problems went on and so and so forth and
still nobody had the freedom to
criticize the government and all these
things and then the other thing that's
tragic here which they kind of allude to
but you don't really get at um there's
the sense of Baria
so BER are they the area right but
that's so that for me is the tragedy
tugging it is a real historical fact in
as much as we can know anything is a
realistic like that burial was at this
time apparently offering real reform
will heal liberalisation and peace of
the United States that's what he was
going for was the end of the Cold War
and an end to the negative elements of
Stalinism even though Barry oh right I
mean he may hold the record as having
raped the most women of anyone in the
20th century it's really if anyone else
in that century could have raped as many
wounds him is he has an unbelievable
record as a sexual predator as a
torturer
you know and so on and yes you know
perhaps because he was he very much was
Stalin's for him any real permit was
Stalin's bagman you know he did you
we carried out the killings and
what-have-you but is it because is it
for that reason
or is it despite that reason that area
was actually the the pro-reform
Pro liberalization pro-democracy propia
the minute Stalin died he thought here's
my chance or or isn't even that he
wanted to have a Redemption arc that he
wanted to go from being Baria the most
hated you know butcher the butcher of
Moscow or whatever to being remembered
in history as the great man who brought
the Soviet Union back into the the
normal world made it into a normal
country again you know was he thought
this is my chance to redeem myself what
was going on there in terms of real
history and then again I mean you know
looking back at that is it a tragedy or
is it something we should celebrate that
Baria was snuffed out you know I mean
you know in terms of the the the the
difference between real world morality
and storybook morality or logical
morality and you know what a horrifying
thought that beriah
whoa k1 Baria might have been a better
dictator than Stalin too because I mean
everyone blamed Baria for the horrors of
stone because he I should carried them
out and he carried out the orders he
carried out the torture and
interrogation and what-have-you and then
to the barium might have actually been a
better leader than Nikita question of so
that's I mean to me that's kind of
profoundly unsettling it's not
unsettling in a shallow sense the way a
horror movie is or something but you
know wow there's this alternate history
where we're very close way and what I
said to Melissa I don't have to give
Melissa morality lectures but it really
is an interesting round electro Baria
couldn't carry out his his reform plan
he couldn't do what because he was
number two in the chain of command he
could have replaced Don he could have
taken over the leadership and that would
have ended the Cold War would have ended
the threat of nuclear war or the whole
world would be different today and
Russia probably profoundly better off
but he couldn't because he had
discredited himself ethically I mean he
was tainted you know so it's like well I
mean there's a real lesson in that one
of the reasons to be a kind of moral and
upstanding person you know is so the
you can do things that are even totally
unrelated there's no relationship
between Berea's sex life and his
political convictions I think that's
what the historical record shows and
that's even shown in this movie like
okay so this guy is a horrible rapist
but even he sees the gulag system as
evil you know what said even he wants
bug and they didn't touch on this he
wanted peace of America and some kind of
fundamental shift towards democracy and
freedom and just normalcy it's being in
a country you know whatever not being
this this this unbelievably horrible
place yeah but even though your sex life
is not related to your political
convictions your sex life can totally
viddy eight totally undermine you
totally discredit or your political
aspirations and everything here and I'm
sorry I feel that way about other vegans
like other vegans who kind of dabble in
racism we're kind of softcore racist
well in a sense racism is unrelated to
veganism but guess what this totally
discredits you you know as a vegan later
you know I think I think there are all
kinds of throw all kinds of examples of
that this YouTube channel probably
discredits me and in a lot of my a lot
of my political aspirations and we'll
see we'll see if I run for mayor we'll
see if this if this very YouTube video
you know discredits me so yeah that's
that's another lesson okay thanks for
coming on livestream with me babe we
don't mmm now that she has her own
YouTube channel we don't do so many
recordings together but that was
spontaneous we didn't talk about any of
this stuff we thought I'd talk about but
I think we laid down a lot of quality
content yeah okay this is our first time
live streaming directly over ytube seems
like there were no technical problems
shout out to David showed up the ghost
of Karl Marx sure to give me the kiss
shouldn't they want to join us I mean
hey man I mean look I mean I think
everyone knows the ultimate irony is you
know veganism also is one of these grand
missions to save the world save the
planet and you know obviously coming out
of the shadow communism my engagement
with Buddhism my engagements
humanitarian work my age with economics
there'd be a whole separate video
you know economics and political science
but a special
the economics economics is the sacred
science of communism some of those moral
and aesthetic concerns obviously carried
over from my being reused communist into
my anti-communist adulthood and all you
guys I hope still are are trying to save
the planet